0x06b - Upgrade Jailbreak section (#1943)
OWASP/owasp-mstg: Document/0x06b-Basic-Security-Testing.md

The following is the most basic iOS app testing setup:

- Ideally macOS host computer with admin rights.
  - [Xcode](0x08-Testing-Tools.md#xcode) and [Xcode Command Line Tools](0x08-Testing-Tools.md#xcode-command-line-tools).
  - An interception proxy tool such as [Burp Suite](0x08-Testing-Tools.md#burp-suite).
  - [Frida via python-pip](0x08-Testing-Tools.md#frida)
- At least one jailbroken iOS device (with the target iOS version installed).
  - [Frida for iOS](0x08-Testing-Tools.md#frida-for-ios)
- A Wi-Fi network that permits client-to-client traffic.

### Testing Device

#### Testing on a Real Device

> We definitely recommend you to have a jailbroken iPhone or iPad for testing. These devices allow root access and tool installation, making the security testing process more straightforward. See the next section ["Getting Privileged Access"](#getting-privileged-access) for more information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We recommend having a jailbroken iPhone or iPad for testing. These devices allow root access and tool installation, making the security testing process more straightforward. See the next section ["Getting Privileged Access"](#getting-privileged-access) for more information.
```

- Semi-untethered jailbreaks allow the device to boot on its own, but the kernel patches (or user-land modifications) for disabling code signing aren't applied automatically. The user must re-jailbreak the device by starting an app or visiting a website (not requiring a connection to a computer, hence the term untethered).

> - Untethered jailbreaks are the most popular choice for end users because they need to be applied only once, after which the device will be permanently jailbroken. They are very rare and usually benefit from hardware-based vulnerabilities, such as the [limera1n exploit](https://www.theiphonewiki.com/wiki/Limera1n "limera1n exploit") which directly affected the BootROM of the iPhone 4 and iPad 1.

Author: ```suggestion
- Untethered jailbreaks are the most popular choice for end users because they need to be applied only once, after which the device will be permanently jailbroken. They are usually rare and benefit from vulnerabilities allowing an exploit to write persistent code on the device. An example is the [limera1n exploit](https://www.theiphonewiki.com/wiki/Limera1n "limera1n exploit") which directly affected the BootROM of the iPhone 4 and iPad 1.
```

- Semi-untethered jailbreaks allow the device to boot on its own, but the kernel patches (or user-land modifications) for disabling code signing aren't applied automatically. The user must re-jailbreak the device by starting an app or visiting a website (not requiring a connection to a computer, hence the term untethered).

> - Untethered jailbreaks are the most popular choice for end users because they need to be applied only once, after which the device will be permanently jailbroken. They are very rare and usually benefit from hardware-based vulnerabilities, such as the [limera1n exploit](https://www.theiphonewiki.com/wiki/Limera1n "limera1n exploit") which directly affected the BootROM of the iPhone 4 and iPad 1.

Reviewer: Isn't the fact that it's untethered because there are additional vulnerabilities that allow you to write persistent code somewhere that is not part of the secure boot chain? (rather than the fact that the vulnerability itself is in HW, because Checkra1n is also in bootrom, but non persistent)

##### Jailbreak Device Strategy

Jailbreaking an iOS device has become more and more challenging and a very time-sensitive procedure, which is understandable since Apple keeps hardening the system, patching the exploited vulnerabilities and quickly releasing upgrades.

iOS upgrades are based on a challenge-response process (generating the so-called SHSH blobs as a result). The device will allow the OS installation only if the response to the challenge is signed by Apple. This is what researchers call a "signing window", and it is the reason you can't simply store the OTA firmware package you downloaded and load it onto the device whenever you want to. During minor iOS upgrades, two versions may both be signed by Apple (the latest one, and the previous iOS version). This is the only situation in which you can downgrade the iOS device. You can check the current signing window and download OTA firmware from the [IPSW Downloads website](https://ipsw.me "IPSW Downloads").

**Recommendation:** if you have a jailbroken device that you use for security testing, keep it as-is unless you're 100% sure that you can re-jailbreak it after upgrading to the latest iOS version.

> Also consider getting one or multiple spare devices (which you will be updating with every major iOS release) and wait for new jailbreak software to be released publicly (see next section). Apple is usually quick to release a patch once a jailbreak has been released publicly, so you have only a couple of days to downgrade to the affected iOS version and apply the jailbreak.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Also consider getting one or more spare devices (which you will be updating with every major iOS release) and wait for new jailbreak software to be released publicly (see next section). Apple is usually quick to release a patch once a jailbreak has been released publicly, so you have only a couple of days to downgrade to the affected iOS version and apply the jailbreak.
```

##### Jailbreak Software

The iOS jailbreak scene evolves so rapidly that providing up-to-date instructions is very challenging. At the time of this writing we can recommend using the very complete ["Jailbreak Chart by the r/jailbreak Reddit community"](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/u/0/d/11DABHIIqwYQKj1L83AK9ywk_hYMjEkcaxpIg6phbTf0/htmlview#).

> Other sources that have been and might still be reliable include:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Other sources that have been, and might still be, reliable include:
```

- [r/jailbreak Reddit Community Page](https://www.reddit.com/r/jailbreak/ "Reddit Jailbreak")
- [Can I Jailbreak?](https://canijailbreak.com/ "Can I Jailbreak?")

> - [The iPhone Wiki](https://www.theiphonewiki.com/ "The iPhone Wiki")

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
This one isn't maintained anymore.

- [Redmond Pie](https://www.redmondpie.com/ "Redmone Pie")

> **IMPORTANT NOTE**:
> Beware of fake tools and spyware, which are often hiding behind domain names that are similar to the name of the jailbreaking group/author.
>
> Note that any modification you make to your device is at your own risk. While jailbreaking is typically safe, things can go wrong and you may end up bricking your device. No other party except yourself can be held accountable for any damage.

##### Testing Jailbreak Detection

Some apps attempt to detect whether the iOS device on which they're running is jailbroken. This is because jailbreaking deactivates some of iOS' default security mechanisms. However, there are several ways to get around these detections, and we'll introduce them in the chapter ["iOS Anti-Reversing Defenses"](0x06j-Testing-Resiliency-Against-Reverse-Engineering.md).

#### Getting the UDID of an iOS device

> The UDID is a 40-digit unique sequence of letters and numbers to identify an iOS device. You can find the UDID of your iOS device on macOS Catalina onwards in the Finder app, as iTunes is not available anymore in Catalina. Just select the connected iOS device in Finder and click on the information under the name of the iOS device to iterate through it. Besides the UDID, you can find the serial number, IMEI and other useful information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The UDID is a 40-digit unique sequence of letters and numbers to identify an iOS device. You can find the UDID of your iOS device on macOS Catalina onwards in the Finder app, as iTunes is not available anymore in Catalina. Select the connected iOS device in Finder and click on the information under the name of the iOS device to iterate through it. Besides the UDID, you can find the serial number, IMEI and other useful information.
```
